Overview of the RELOAD specification

RELOAD stands for REsource LOcation And Discovery and is a peer-to-peer (P2P)
signaling protocol that provides its clients with an abstract storage and
messaging service between a set of cooperating peers that form an overlay
network.

RELOAD is designed to support a P2P Session Initiation Protocol (P2PSIP)
network, but can be utilized by other applications with similar requirements
by defining new usages that specify the kinds of data that need to be stored
for a particular application. 

RELOAD defines a security model based on a certificate enrollment service
that provides unique identities. NAT traversal is a fundamental service of
the protocol. RELOAD also allows access from "client" nodes that do not
need to route traffic or store data for others.

The RELOAD specification is described in a number of RFCs, as follows:

1. RFC 6940 - RELOAD base protocol

   This document describes the base RELOAD protocol.

   Implemented for this project: Yes

2. RFC 7890 - Concepts and Terminology for Peer-to-Peer SIP (P2PSIP)

   This document defines concepts and terminology for using the Session
   Initiation Protocol in a peer-to-peer environment where the traditional
   proxy-registrar and message-routing functions are replaced by a
   distributed mechanism.

   This document is not an Internet Standards Track specification; it is
   published for informational purposes.

   Implemented for this project: Yes

3. RFC 7904 - A SIP Usage for RELOAD

   This document defines a SIP Usage for RELOAD. The SIP Usage provides
   the functionality of a SIP proxy or registrar in a fully distributed
   system and includes a lookup service for Address of Records (AORs)
   stored in the overlay. It also defines Globally Routable User Agent
   URIs (GRUUs) that allow the registrations to map an AOR to a specific
   node reachable through the overlay.

   Implemented for this project: Yes

4. RFC 7363 - Self-Tuning Distributed Hash Table (DHT) for RELOAD

   This document describes how the default topology plugin of RELOAD can be
   extended to support self-tuning, that is, to adapt to changing operating
   conditions such as churn and network size.

   Implemented for this project: Optional
   Note: this is an optimization that will be implemented if time permits

5. RFC 7374 - Service Discovery Usage for RELOAD

   RELOAD does not define a generic service discovery mechanism as a part
   of the base protocol (RFC 6940). This document defines how the Recursive
   Distributed Rendezvous (ReDiR) service discovery mechanism can be applied
   to RELOAD overlays to provide a generic service discovery mechanism.

   Implemented for this project: No
   Note: this can be subject of future works

6. RFC 8076 - A Usage for Shared Resources in RELOAD (ShaRe)

   This document defines a RELOAD Usage for managing shared write access
   to RELOAD Resources. Shared Resources in RELOAD (ShaRe) form a basic
   primitive for enabling various coordination and notification schemes
   among distributed peers. Access in ShaRe is controlled by a hierarchical
   trust delegation scheme maintained within an access list. A new access
   policy allows authorized peers to write a Shared Resource without owning
   its corresponding certificate.

   This specification also adds mechanisms to store Resources with a
   variable name that is useful whenever peer-independent rendezvous
   processes are required.

   Implemented for this project: No
   Note: this can be subject of future works

7. RFC 7851 - Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Overlay Diagnostics

   This document describes mechanisms for Peer-to-Peer (P2P) overlay
   diagnostics. It defines extensions to the RELOAD base protocol to
   collect diagnostic information and details the protocol specifications
   for these extensions. Useful diagnostic information for connection and
   node status monitoring is also defined. The document also describes the
   usage scenarios and provides examples of how these methods are used to
   perform diagnostics.

   Implemented for this project: No
   Note: this can be subject of future works

8. RFC 7263 - An Extension to RELOAD to Support Direct Response Routing

   This document defines an optional extension to the RELOAD protocol to
   support the direct response routing mode. RELOAD recommends symmetric
   recursive routing for routing messages. The new optional extension
   provides a shorter route for responses, thereby reducing overhead
   on intermediate peers.

   Implemented for this project: Optional, if time permits
   Note: this can be subject of future works

9. RFC 7264 - An Extension to RELOAD to Support Relay Peer Routing

   This document defines an optional extension to the RELOAD protocol to
   support the relay peer routing mode. RELOAD recommends symmetric
   recursive routing for routing messages. The new optional extension
   provides a shorter route for responses, thereby reducing overhead
   on intermediate peers.

   Implemented for this project: No (requires relays)
   Note: this can be subject of future works

