
SIP RELOAD

1. Summary

RELOAD stands for REsource LOcation And Discovery and is a peer-to-peer (P2P)
signaling protocol that provides its clients with an abstract storage and
messaging service between a set of cooperating peers that form an overlay
network.

RELOAD is designed to support a P2P Session Initiation Protocol (P2PSIP)
network, but can be utilized by other applications with similar requirements
by defining new usages that specify the kinds of data that need to be stored
for a particular application. 

RELOAD defines a security model based on a certificate enrollment service
that provides unique identities. NAT traversal is a fundamental service of
the protocol. RELOAD also allows access from "client" nodes that do not need
to route traffic or store data for others.

2. Description

The goal is to implement a P2P communications network based on IETF standards
that allows people to communicate securely without the traditional interposed
third parties like SIP service providers.

This is done both by establishing direct encrypted channels between the
participants as well as using digital identities based on X509 certificates
to identify the participants in a conversation, which will prevent third
parties from inserting themselves into the conversation by attempting to
impersonate one of the participants.

This addresses concerns like privacy, security and trustworthiness of the
parties involved in communication.

3. Benefits

The RELOAD network replaces the traditional SIP service providers and SIP
proxies by allowing participants to find each other and establish direct
secure private channels of communication between them. In addition each
participant carries a digital identity in the form of a X509 certificate that
is used to both identify the party as well as sign all the exchanged messages
between parties preventing third parties from tampering with them.

The digital identity is issued by the RELOAD network using an enrollment
server that generates and signs a X509 certificate for each participant in
the network. This certificate will contain information that pertains to the
RELOAD network itself as well as information that pertains to the participant
like his SIP address. The system will allow participants to use their
existing E-mail addresses as SIP addresses, thus removing the need to
register for yet another address to use as the SIP identity. The enrollment
server will validate that the user has control over the E-mail address they
try to use before issuing them a certificate that contains that address as
their SIP identity. This allows any participant in the RELOAD network to be
sure that they talk with someone that has proven that they own the address
that they registered with the network, as well simplifying the management of
online identities by allowing participants to reuse their well established
E-mail identities as SIP identities as well. This is possible without the
need to have control over the DNS domains of those E-mail addresses.

Despite the use of digital identities to identify the participants in the
network, people can still choose to be anonymous if they need to protect
their privacy, by simply using an incognito E-mail address that is not
associated with their identity and requesting a new certificate that is
based on this E-mail address that also becomes their SIP address as well.

Unlike traditional SIP networks, the RELOAD network only facilitates for
participants to meet and to store data they intend to publish.
After the participants find each other, they establish direct encrypted
channels between them that cannot be intercepted or eavesdropped by the
network. The messages used to find each other are digitally signed, so each
participant can be sure they were not tampered with by the transiting nodes.

This in in contrast with traditional networks, where there is no guarantee
that the participants have encrypted end-to-end connections. Even if a client
uses TLS to talk to a SIP server, there is no guarantee that the SIP server
will use TLS on the next leg of the connection and even if it does, the SIP
server still needs to decrypt the message and can as a result eavesdrop on
the communication.
In addition media encryption keys for SRTP are exchanged in clear with the
SIP message so the SIP proxy can intercept and eavesdrop on the media
exchanged in a conversation as well. As a consequence, technologies like ZRTP
have emerged attempting to overcome the security and privacy shortcomings of
the traditional SIP networks.

In summary the benefits of the SIP RELOAD network in comparison with
traditional SIP networks are:

- Users can use their existing E-mail identities as SIP identities instead of
  getting a new SIP identity associated with the domain controlled by the SIP
  provider.
- Users have digital identities in the form of X509 certificates that are
  used to both identify them as well as sign any messages they exchange to
  prevent tampering.
- Participants in the network only use the network to find each other, after
  which they establish direct encrypted connections between them that cannot
  be eavesdropped by third parties.
- Media parameters are exchanged over the encrypted channels, so media
  encryption keys cannot be intercepted and used for eavesdropping by third
  parties.
- Because media encryption keys are not exposed and the identity of the
  participants is established by the X509 certificates they use, there is no
  need for additional technologies like ZRTP to secure communications and
  guarantee the identity of the remote party.

